Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction.


> abstraction means hiding the complex implementation details of a program, exposing only the API required to use the implementation. 
> A Java program is also a great example of abstraction. Here java takes care of converting simple statements to machine language and hides the inner implementation details from the outer world.

To acheive  abstraction :
> abstract class (0-100%)
> Interface (100%)

Advantages of abstraction :
> Security
> Enhancement - For example if we are changing or upgrading software we have just way of implementing , set of rules remains same .
> enhances loose coupling


Abstract class :
> It cannot be instantiated 
> It must be extended to a class in order to use .


Interface :

> It is set of rules 
> all variables are by default final and static
> upto java 8 all methods were abstract in interface
>  after java 8 we can define default method and static method in interface.




Interface:

A class can implement multiple interfaces
An interface cannot provide any code at all
An interface can only define public static final constants
An interface cannot define instance variables
Adding a new method has ripple effects on implementing classes (design maintenance)
An interface cannot extends or implement an abstract class
All interface methods are public
In general, interfaces should be used to define contracts (what is to be achieved, not how to achieve it).

Abstract Class:

A class can extend at most one abstract class
An abstract class can contain code
An abstract class can define both static and instance constants (final)
An abstract class can define instance variables
Modification of existing abstract class code has ripple effects on extending classes (implementation maintenance)
Adding a new method to an abstract class has no ripple effect on extending classes
An abstract class can implement an interface
Abstract classes can implement private and protected methods
Abstract classes should be used for (partial) implementation. They can be a mean to restrain the way API contracts should be implemented.


interface from java 8 :
can have default method - which allows the implementation class to work normal even though we add this method to interface
> we can override default method

> Static methods are allowed from java 8 .
>Its best to use only interface when we dont require objects , as we can run main method from interface
